---
title: Critique Books
category: books
image_url: https://i.imgur.com/3NXCubq.jpeg
image_alt: Woman reading a book in a library setting. 
---
{% include page-image.html %}

<p><strong>Comics and the Origins of Manga: A Revisionist History</strong> was the 2022 Eisner Award Winner for Best Academic/Scholarly Work. It challenges the conventional wisdom that manga evolved from centuries of prior Japanese art and explains why manga and other comics around the world share the same origin story. The reality of manga history is that it is deeply intertwined with Japan’s keen importation of Western technology and popular culture in the early twentieth century, and therefore manga should not be viewed as an exotic antithesis to American and European comics through an Orientalist framework. This book offers a new understanding of manga and how it became the way it is today.</p>

<p><strong>Manga: A Critical Guide</strong>, by Shige (CJ) Suzuki and Ronald Stewart, is a wide-ranging introductory guide to manga, helping readers explore the diversity of Japanese comic styles, forms, and traditions from its earliest texts to the internationally popular comics of the 21st century. The book covers: the history of Japanese comics from its earliest forms to the present, case studies reflecting the range of themes, genres, forms, and creators, key themes and contexts ranging from gender and sexuality to history and censorship, and critical approaches to manga, with definitions, biographies, reception, and global publishing contexts.</p>

<p><strong>Global Manga: 'Japanese' Comics without Japan?</strong> is a new essay collection, edited by City University London’s Casey Brienza, on the “global cultural phenomenon” of comics that may be presented as manga but are not actually created in Japan. Outside Japan, the term ’manga’ usually refers to comics originally published in Japan. Yet nowadays many publications labelled ’manga’ are not translations of Japanese works but rather have been wholly conceived and created elsewhere. It presents an overview of the emergence of “original” (i.e., non-Japanese) manga, largely in response to market pressures and conditions. This essay provides working definitions of both “global manga” and “manga” in general, surveys the current state of “cultural production” of global manga around the world – in the U.S. and Canada, in Europe, and in South America, and approaches the underlying question of how to consider manga/global manga – as styles, as marketing functions or labels, or even as “tools” deployed in support of particular activities.</p>